Maybe you can talk to the theory of everything. Uh, the,
this attempt in the current set of physical laws to try to unify them.
Is there any hope that once, uh,
a theory of everything is developed and by theory of everything, I mean,
in a narrow sense of unifying quantum field area and general relativity,
do you think that will contain in some, like,
in order to do that unification,
you would have to get something that would then give hints about the physics of
life, physics of existence, physics of consciousness.
Yeah, I used to not, but I actually, uh,
I have become increasingly convinced that it probably will. Uh,
and part of the reason is, um, I think I've,
I've talked a little bit already about these holes in physics. Like these, the,
the theories we have in physics, you know, they have problems,
they have lots of problems, um, and they're very deep problems. Um,
and we don't know how to patch them. Um,
and some of those problems become very evident when you try to patch, um,
quantum mechanics in general activity together.
Um,
so there is this kind of interesting feature that some of the ways of patching
that might actually, um, closely resemble, uh, the physics of life.
And so the place where that actually comes up most.
And actually we just had a workshop, um,
in the beyond center where I work at Arizona state university, um,
and Lee Molin made this point that he thinks that the theory of quantum gravity,
when we solve it is gonna be the same theory that gives rise to life.
Um,
and I think that I agree with him on some levels because there's something very
interesting where if you look at these sort of causal set theories of gravity,
where they're looking for space, um,
as being emergent and so space time is an emergent concept from a causal set,
which is, is also so sort of related, I think,
to what Wolf firm's doing with his physics project. Um,
it's the same kind of underlying math that we have in,
in this theory that we've been developing related to life called assembly
theory, um, which is, you know,
basically trying to look at complex objects like molecules and,
um, bacteria and living things as, um, sort of,
uh, as basically being assembled from a, a set of component parts, um,
and that they actually encode all the possible histories that they could have in
that physical object. So the mathematically,
all these ideas I think are related.
I think a lot of people are thinking about this from different perspectives and
then constructive theory, um,
that David DOYs and Kara Marto have been developing is a,
a totally different angle on it. But I think getting at some similar ideas.
So it's a really interesting time right now,
I think for the frontiers of physics and how it's relating, um,
to maybe deeper principles about what life is so short answer. Yes.
Long-winded answer rewind.